# Python-Github-Project2
Project 2 for Mateus, Zarzycki A15664297 Scientific Question: How similar/different is the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 5 (NADH-5, mitochondrial DNA) between the Domestic Cat (Felis catus), European Wildcat (Felis silvestris silvestris), and the Near Eastern Wildcat (Felis silvestris lybica)? Is there an expression difference in FGF5 between Domestic and Wildat species?  NADH5 is an important gene found in the genetic code of all feline species. Many research teams have used it as a molecular clock for phylogenetic analysis for feline species as the NADH5 has a relatively fast and consistent evolution development. The feline genus had official diverged quite recently (30 million years ago) and thus most other molecular clocks are quite ineffective at this short of a timescale.  Besides being genetically the most similar non-primate species to humans there has been a lack of intrest and support in understanding the genetic code of the common house cat. Recently, the entire genome had been mapped for the common house cat and alot of work had been done in understanding the time of divergence between the three lineages that make up the Feline genus. However, there are still many questions based on exact position of the common house cats specifically within their specific lineage. This project will hopfullly change that partially define the relatedness of the domesist cat population to two morphologically similar species.  Historically, hybridization had many genetic research of wild/common cats dificult as species can have quiete diverse genetically and thus it is rough to tell what the difference is. Also, NADH5 has been used to compare subspecies of other species (tigers, tigers) and for mapping the lineages of overall felines species (Panthera) however, it has never been done for the domestic cat species.  Scientific Hypothesis:If the NADH-5 of the domestic cats (Felis catus) is more similar to European Wildcats (Felis silvestris silvestris) compared to the the Near Eastern Wildcat (Felis silvestris lybica) then that must mean that the Domestic Cat must genetically diverged earlier from the Near Eastern Wildcat compared to the European Wildcats.If the domestic cats have longer fur than that must be correlated with more FGF5 expression.
